Pokémon National Pokédex By Name Legendary Pokémon Mythical Pokémon Event Pokémon Terastal Noble Pokémon Alpha Pokémon Gigantamax Dynamax more...
Mechanics Types Type chart Abilities Nature Status conditions Moves Items more...
Games Video Games Portal Walkthroughs Pokémon Scarlet and Violet Pokémon Legends: Arceus Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl Pokémon Sword and Shield Spin-offs Pokémon GO all games...
Video Games Portal
Pokémon Scarlet and Violet
Pokémon Legends: Arceus
Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl
Pokémon Sword and Shield
How to play
Animation & Manga Animation Portal Manga Portal Pokémon Horizons Liko Pokémon the Series Ash Ketchum Animated series characters Movies Manga Pokémon Adventures
Animation & Manga
Pokémon Horizons Liko Pokémon the Series Ash Ketchum Animated series characters Movies Manga Pokémon Adventures
Pokémon the Series
Animated series characters
More Social Youtube Twitch X (Twitter) Facebook Instagram Tumblr Mastodon Apps Android iOS
Social Youtube Twitch X (Twitter) Facebook Instagram Tumblr Mastodon Apps Android iOS
Social Youtube Twitch X (Twitter) Facebook Instagram Tumblr Mastodon
Apps Android iOS
New Accounts Create Bulbapedia Account Create Forum Account
Create Bulbapedia Account
Create Forum Account
Trainer Tips (Japanese: お 得 な 掲示板 useful bulletin boards ) are signboards containing hints and tutorials regarding game elements to aid beginning players in their journey . They have appeared in all core series Pokémon games from Pokémon Red and Blue to Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl . While reading these signs typically serves no other purpose, the player can get the Signboard Starter and Signboard Savvy Medals in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 by reading 5 and 15 different Trainer Tips signs, respectively.
Other signboards containing hints have also appeared in the games. In Pokémon X, Y , Pokémon Sun, Moon , Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon , Advanced Tips (Japanese: なるほど 掲示板 "I see" bulletin boards ) contain more advanced information. In Pokémon Sun, Moon , Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon , Island Challenge Markers (Japanese: 島巡 り 看板 island-visiting signboards ) contain information for Trainers on their island challenge . All of them are located near barricades that are opened after clearing a trial.
1 List of Trainer Tips 1.1 Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow 1.2 Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal 1.3 Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald 1.4 Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen 1.5 Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum 1.6 Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver 1.7 Pokémon Black and White 1.8 Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 1.9 Pokémon X and Y 1.10 Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire 1.11 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon 1.12 Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! 1.13 Pokémon Sword and Shield 1.14 Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl 2 List of Advanced Tips 2.1 Pokémon X and Y 2.2 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon 3 List of Island Challenge Markers 3.1 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon 4 In animation 4.1 Pokémon the Series 4.1.1 Pokémon the Series: Gold and Silver 5 Trivia 6 In other languages 7 See also
1 List of Trainer Tips 1.1 Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow 1.2 Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal 1.3 Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald 1.4 Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen 1.5 Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum 1.6 Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver 1.7 Pokémon Black and White 1.8 Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 1.9 Pokémon X and Y 1.10 Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire 1.11 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon 1.12 Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! 1.13 Pokémon Sword and Shield 1.14 Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl
1.1 Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow 1.2 Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal 1.3 Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald 1.4 Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen 1.5 Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum 1.6 Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver 1.7 Pokémon Black and White 1.8 Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 1.9 Pokémon X and Y 1.10 Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire 1.11 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon 1.12 Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! 1.13 Pokémon Sword and Shield 1.14 Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl
1.1 Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow
1.2 Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal
1.3 Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald
1.4 Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen
1.5 Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum
1.6 Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver
1.7 Pokémon Black and White
1.8 Pokémon Black 2 and White 2
1.9 Pokémon X and Y
1.10 Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire
1.11 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon
1.12 Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!
1.13 Pokémon Sword and Shield
1.14 Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl
2 List of Advanced Tips 2.1 Pokémon X and Y 2.2 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon
2.1 Pokémon X and Y 2.2 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon
2.1 Pokémon X and Y
2.2 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon
3 List of Island Challenge Markers 3.1 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon
3.1 Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon
4 In animation 4.1 Pokémon the Series 4.1.1 Pokémon the Series: Gold and Silver
4.1 Pokémon the Series 4.1.1 Pokémon the Series: Gold and Silver
4.1.1 Pokémon the Series: Gold and Silver
6 In other languages
7 See also
List of Trainer Tips
Pokémon Red, Blue , and Yellow
Pokémon Gold, Silver , and Crystal
Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire , and Emerald
Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen
Pokémon Diamond, Pearl , and Platinum
Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver
Pokémon Black and White
Pokémon Black 2 and White 2
Pokémon X and Y
Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire
Pokémon Sun, Moon , Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon
Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!
List of Advanced Tips
List of Island Challenge Markers
In The Psychic Sidekicks! , Ash and his friends came across a Trainer Tips sign that advised them to use Psychic Pokémon against the Ghost Pokémon lurking in the forest they were currently in.
In the entrance to the Safari Zone in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire , and Emerald , a sign in the Western versions contains a "Safari Zone Trainer Tip". In the original Japanese version, this sign only contains "useful information for the Safari Zone" (サファリゾーンの　おとくな　じょうほう), and is not a "useful bulletin board" (おとくな　けいじばん) like the other Trainer Tips.
In the Pokémon Diamond and Pearl demo , the Trainer Tips signs on Route 203 are replaced with different text. Additionally, the first line of each are written using "Trainer Tip" in the singular rather than "Trainer Tips" in the plural.
The text for one Advanced Tips sign and one Trainer Tips are present in the internal data of Pokémon Sun and Moon but are not actually used in-game. Both pieces of text are located between the text for signs on Akala Island , and were removed from the game files in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.
In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon , one of the Rotom Pokédex 's lines has it question what the difference is between Trainer Tips and Advanced Tips.
In other languages
Island Challenge Marker
Article Discussion Read View source History
Article Discussion More Tools In other languages
Create account Log in
Frequently asked questions
Bulbagarden home page Bulbagarden Archives Bulbagarden Forums Bulbagarden Discord Bulbagarden Twitch Bulbagarden YouTube
Bulbagarden home page
Bluesky Facebook Mastodon Twitter Tumblr
What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Printable version Permanent link Page information Cite this page
What links here
Cite this page
Español Italiano 日本語 中文
This page was last edited on 5 October 2025, at 22:22.
Content is available under Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.5 . (see Copyrights for details)